Q- What is Git ?

Ans- Git is version control system . Its a distributed plateform means same code can be stored on multiple servers on different locations
     so that if one of the server goes down user can access the code using another server.


Q- What is a repository in GIT ?

Ans- Repository in GIT is place where we store our different versions of same file. which later on will be merged to the main file. 


Q- What is the command you can use to write a commit message ?

Ans- Command to write a commit message is    -m   "your message ".
     Full command will be like this.
	  Git commit -m "your message"


Q- What is the function of ‘GIT PUSH’ in GIT?
 
 Ans- GIT Push function is used to push your code from local repository to Git hub repository.
 
 
Q- What is “Staging Area” or “Index” in GIT?

Ans- Staging area is between your local folder & repository.


Q- What is GIT stash?

Ans- GIT stash is used to save the current state of a working directory just like taking snapshot of a state.



Q-What is the function of git clone ?

Ans- Git clone is used to clone Git hub repository to your local repository.

Q- What is the function of ‘git config’?

Ans- Git config is used to connect your local repository to Git Hub repository with the given configuration user.name & user.email id.

Q- How can you create a repository in Git?

Ans- To create a repository in Git  first create a local branch in your local repository  now checkout from your main branch to new branch & push that branch to Git hub using 
     command (git push branch name)
	 
Q- What is the purpose of branching in GIT?

Ans- Purpose of branching in Git is to multiple developer can work on same file , same project at same time without conflict.


Q- What is the difference between ‘git remote’ and ‘git clone’?

Ans- Git remote is to connect your local repository to git hub , & Git clone is to clone the git hub repository to local repository.


Q- What is the function of ‘git diff ’ in git?

Ans- Git diff is to check diff between two commits in git hub repository.


Q- What is ‘git status’ is used for?

Ans- Git status is used current status of your local repository whether there is any new file or changes to push.


Q- What is the difference between the ‘git diff ’and ‘git status’?

Ans- Git diff is to find the difference between two commits where git status is used to check status of your local repository.


Q- What is the function of ‘git checkout’ in git?

Ans- Git checkout is to switch from one branch to another branch in your local repository.


Q- What is the function of ‘git rm’? 

Ans- git rm  is used to remove file from your local repository.


Q- What is the use of ‘git log’?

Ans- git log is used to see all the git commands that is executed till now.


Q- What is ‘git add’ is used for?

Ans- git add is used to add file in git.




